Sir, this is in regards to the training you
received prior to going to Vietnam or even in
Vietnam on the Vietnamese culture or language.
Did you receive any training in that area? During
the three weeks at Camp Pendleton, we received
training on the Vietnamese culture. We received a
few words or instruction on a few words of
Vietnamese, like halt.
do you surrender things of that nature but there
was no extensive training language training at
all and it was not necessary because the type of
contact that an infantry organization has you
don't need the language training i don't think it
would be cost effective anyway except for those
people that are dealing with Vietnamese on a daily
basis and have to be conversable. In other words,
you can be assigned to a built-up area, or to a town
like Da Nang, and still not have to speak
Vietnamese. I'm sure there are Vietnamese
citizens around, and it would be convenient if you
could, but a lot of people have the type of jobs
where they do come in daily contact. We were
confident that their job didn't mean that they had
to talk to Vietnamese. You're in a military
compound, you're working with other Marines or
other Americans, and you can get your job done
without the language. When I was there, there was
always a curfew at night. Of course, Marines
worked in the daytime, so there was little
exposure. There was no liberty in that country, so
social contact was nonexistent. Still, when you
go into a village or you're patrolling an area, you
do need to know the various things that upset a race
of people or a certain culture. For instance, I
remember you weren't supposed to pat Vietnamese
on the head like you do American children, like
you're a good boy or you're a good girl. That's
offensive to them. If they want to walk in front of
you, they will put their hands down like this and
kind of bow their head to pass in front of you. That
doesn't mean that they're showing signs of
inferiority. That's just their way of saying,
excuse me, to pass it in front of them. They would
not actually say excuse me to an American that
looks like they're being subservient to us. So
it's good to know those traits, characteristics,
because it keeps you from becoming the ugly
American, creating the wrong impression. On
this topic, how about the enlisted men? When they
would go on patrols or go through towns, did they
have a problem with, say, respecting the culture?
Particularly, I know the Vietnamese have a habit
of holding hands. Did that cause problems? I don't
think it did. After you've been there any length of
time, you realize that was just their way of doing
things. The Vietnamese are not the only society
that hold hands. It's quite prevalent throughout
the Orient. If you spend any time in the Far East as I
had, you knew that that was just one of their
customs and practices. And after you've observed
it for a while, it didn't bother you. I'm sure it
bothered the on the list of Marines initially but
again all of them went through that three weeks
training at Camp Finland and they were told that
these type of things happen and it doesn't mean the
same thing to them that it does to us.
In going into their villages found that most of the
people were very leery of Americans. Of course,
they were living to the Americans in daytime, and
then the Viet Cong would come out at night. So they
didn't want to appear overly friendly to us. And
they would stay back in their houses or out in their
fields and stay away from us. And it wasn't an
atmosphere where, oh, here comes the American,
and we'd all flock around him and hope to get
chewing gum and candy and that type of thing. They
were very aloof or distant. They didn't want to
have too much contact. Then at nighttime, the
local populace would hole up in their houses or in
their village. There was no contact with the
Americans at all at that time. So really, when a
Marine, an infantry Marine, saw a Vietnamese that
was on a, he was working, he was out patrolling,
passing through a village or around the village,
he had very little, well, had no social contact. He
might have to gather people up and search them and
move them along from one area to another. Again, it
wasn't social contact. You were out there doing a
job, and you didn't have a chance to see all these
type of actions or symbols that the local culture
used to be upset. Now, if you were stationed
full-time into May, you'd have greater access to
the local populace, or if you were in Saigon, I'm
sure this situation will be completely
different. It could even take classes while
you're over there on what the culture is for you to
understand that. All right, sir. The next
question is concerning military leadership and
problems such as drugs, careerism, fragging. Did
you have any observations concerning the quality
of leadership over there? Well, I had... I guess I
had observations on the quality of leadership, as
well as limited observations on the other
subjects that you just mentioned.
I found the leadership to be good.
Of course, as I said, I was a senior captain by those
standards.
was more experienced than the other captains. I
have to also point out that the way we operated as an
infantry company commander, I had little contact
with the other company commanders. I did by radio,
but seldom visually. We went out as a company and we
would operate independently under the guidance
of the battalion. They would direct us by the radio
transmission. but seldom were two companies
adjacent to each other in the classic sense of
companies online, where daily you would
coordinate with the company on your right and the
company on your left, and the company in the
reserve behind you. We didn't have that type of
environment. So the only time I got to see the other
company commander would be a brief session when we
were getting ready to jump off on a
battalion-level operation. And we were all in for
a briefing and coordination before we jumped off.
And so I had Lindy in contact with them then. After
the operation, we all flushed and went back to the
respective zones. And never had a chance to see
around and just shoot them back. So the people that
I had more experience with were obviously the
commanders above me. I had three battalion
commanders, three different battalion
commanders while I was a company commander. And
the operations officer I saw all the time had two
different operations officers. And then, of
course, the officers who worked
for me. The three battalion commanders that I had
were all superb. One of them, well, one of them, two
of them were superb. One was good, but the other two
were just superb. Both of the operations officers
were truly outstanding and did a great job of
directing the operations of the battalion.
Concerning the officers and staff
non-commissioned officers that worked for me, at
that time we were so short of infantry officers
that we had to take officers, non-infantry
officers, and make them or assign them to the
infantry companies for 90 days. I only, in a
six-month period, as I recall, I only had three
lieutenants that had an infantry background. I
had an engineer, tank officer, several different
types, and they were there during their initial 90
days of combat duty with the infantry before they
would go on to a tank organization or an engineer
organization. So I would say at least 50% of the
lieutenants who worked for me were not infantry.
They were in for a great shock when they got there.
They knew that the reason they were there was
because infantry officers didn't survive very
long, and probably part of the motivation for them
being, let's say, an engineering officer as
opposed to an infantry officer was he didn't like
the infantry type of work. It just wasn't his cup of
tea. When he got out there and found that he was
assigned to an infantry organization,
he was probably in shock.
In fairness to those folks, though, I had an
engineer officer that was very quiet, but he did a
superb job. He wasn't showy like some infantry
officers are. I was not impressed with him
initially, but he got the job done. His unit was
always well prepared and well taken care of. I had
an infantry officer that I had to relieve. I
couldn't trust him. But I think you'll find that in
any situation. But if I had to stereotype a group of
people, I would say that they were all very good.
You'll have your exceptions any time. People that
just aren't fit for that type of duty. I had one
staff non-commissioned officer who was accused
of being a coward under fire. I'm not sure. I wasn't
there on the scene when it occurred,
so I don't know if that is, in fact, the truth. He was
a staff mountain commission officer who'd been in
the Marine Corps 17 years. There was a great effort
to court-martial
him, and I refused to do so. He had to be the sergeant
for the lieutenant, but I didn't trust him. When I
did, I finally got him reassigned to special
services. There was no point, in my view, of taking
a man who had spent 17 dedicated years in the Marine
Corps and court-martialing him on a thin thread of
evidence, as I saw him, and ruining his life. And I
think it would have ruined his life. He was,
because of the actions that were going on, he was
very distraught. I didn't think it was necessary.
All right, sir, did you have any problem with
drugs, or did you see any drugs use at all? I
encountered use of drugs one time. That was back
when our company was in a rear area, and we were able
to stand down for one night in one of the tents over
in the mess area. This was over in a battalion mess
area, not one of mine. There was a group of people,
and I probably had a few people in there, that were
smoking marijuana. That's the only situation,
the only occasion that I know of. When we were out in
the field, it simply didn't happen in my company.
We had a policy of anyone who was caught on drugs was
immediate
non-judicial punishment or court-martial and
reduction in rank. but out in the out in the field or
the bushes we call it your life depended on each
other and there was a great social stigma for
everyone to be alert and prepared and i think the
people who used them knew that
they were impaired wherever they were spoken to so
they didn't do it Was there an occasional time?
There could have been. But the thing is, marijuana
has a strong, distinctive odor. You're always
checking your positions at nighttime, not only to
come to commander, but to commanders and to
sergeants. And you would notice something
on the water. We were out there in the middle of
nowhere, where we had to rely on each person. To my
knowledge, it just never happened. Now, I did hear
stories about back in Saigon and back in Da Nang and
back in Da Nang, where smoking went on every night,
as well as fragging of people, officers and staff,
noncommissioned officers. I've heard of Marine
officers being fragged. I never knew of anyone who
was, nor did I, nor was I aware of a specific
incident. Again, I was out in the field for six
months and never saw one tree or a dog hawk at all,
except the one night I spent going and about the
three nights I spent coming back. I was just
unaware of anything
at that time. All right, sir. Did you see any
careerism go on? Any officers that perhaps were
trying to get their ticket punched so they could
move up and Quite the contrary. And I was really
surprised just to have seen that question on the
topic sheet that you submitted to me earlier.
I was trying to, I was wondering where the question
came from and what was the basis of the question. I
would guess back in Saigon, maybe depending on the
higher level staffs, You might run into queries.
I said, to the contrary, I run into just the
opposite. When my first battalion commander's
tour was nearing completion, I asked him one day
who was going to be his relief, and he said he didn't
know. He said, there are three infantry
battalions, or CO's positions of three infantry
battalions, that are coming open within a week or
two of each other. It's time he was leaving. He said
there were 11 lieutenant colonels back at the
division headquarters who were eligible to go out
and take over the battalion. At that time, the
commanding general's policy was you just didn't
take a person from the United States, a lieutenant
colonel from the United States, and assign him to a
battalion. You put him on the division staff for
four to six months so he could get the lay of the
land, if you will, understand the rules of
engagement, the nature of the war, so that he
didn't go in unaware of how the war should be
fought. What we found, and what Lieutenant Curcio
told me, was that of the 11 lieutenant colonels who
were in that situation, one wanted a battalion.
and one other would take the battalion if offered.
This was quite a shock to me as a young officer. I
thought all people aspired for command,
particularly in combat. What it meant was that
life was dangerous out there and it was hard, and
commanders could get relieved because things
didn't go well or go right. If you were a staff
officer in the rear, get your ticket punched, to
use that phrase, get your combat time in, get a good
finish report, and go over and come back with your
career.
And you didn't get hurt, because as a staff officer
it's more difficult to mess up than the SS men do. If
you want to call that careerism, yes, it is. Kind of
a protective careerism. When I saw the note
careerism, I took that in the context of here are
officers They want to get an infantry
organization or a command and go out and be daring
and take chances and do reckless things in the name
of getting hit. And I certainly didn't see that at
all. It didn't happen with any of the three
commanders that I had or any of the company
commanders that I associated with or any of the
junior officers. It just didn't happen. All
right, sir. Concerning your operations that you
were on, what... Were there any failures?
Depends how you classify failures.
If you say you were not successful, you had a
failure, you probably could say so, but for
instance,
A fire base had been closed, and we went back in to
open a fire base and launch new operations against
the North Vietnamese. We bombarded that fire base
for about six hours before my company, as the lead
company, flew into it. When we got there, what
enemy forces had been there were gone. It was
obvious that we were coming. We bombarded the
area, and we flew in right on the last shell, so to
speak. Did we find, fix, and destroy any enemy at
that point? No, we didn't. Was that a successful
operation? Well, at the time, I didn't feel like it
was because I hadn't killed any more of the enemy
forces. On the other hand, that was a piece of real
estate that we now owned and controlled. We
controlled all the movement in that area, so it was
a successful operation.
And that was more typical than atypical, that you
would do many combat operations. Some you would
engage the enemy and some you would not. Where we
engaged the enemy, we were always successful. But
we were on one operation with the Vietnamese that
we could have been successful. But we were not. We
were on a large carton operation. That's where
we'd fly in a bunch of units and march in a bunch of
units, forming huge rectangle people. As I
recall, the piece of real estate where we fought
the North Vietnamese were was about 4 kilometers
by 10 kilometers. We put a carton around this area.
Unfortunately, the Vietnamese soldiers moved in
at a different rate of movement than we did, with
stuff gaping holes in the carton. And then over the
weekend that we were there, they just sat down,
basically shut down. It didn't work. It was left
gaping holes. Our game plan was to close down the
court and make it smaller and just put a squeeze on
the enemy forces that we called in, that
intelligence that we had in it. When we did that, we
didn't come under
it. I never saw anyone fleeing, so I don't know if
that was... successful operation or an
unsuccessful operation. It was not successfully
executed, from my point of view, because the
Vietnamese left gaping holes in the mines. So had
there been North Vietnamese in there, they could
have gotten out. I saw other companies that had
Firefights where they had to leave their people
out there for a while, half a day to a day, with their
casualties before they could go
get them. As I indicated, most firefights or
skirmishes are brief and intense, and if you're
caught unprepared, you're going to take some
casualties.
Depending on the size of the action, you could take
any number from 1 to 10 to 50. But because you were
fighting on another man's turf, he could land into
the countryside and he took his casualties with
him. You never knew how many, in most cases, you
didn't know how many casualties he suffered. The
engagements were at night. They were on the
outside of you. Of course, you collected your
casualties. They'd pull theirs off and they were
gone. You come to expect
that. There are occasions when you completely
overwhelm them, and you've got their casualties
right there. And so you know that you've got some.
You never know. All right, sir. Do you have any more
comments on the success of your operations? Well,
I would have to say we were successful. We didn't
take too many casualties. We moved a great number
of people, great distances. We controlled a lot of
land, countryside.
I felt that we could move about fairly freely now.
By that I don't mean loosely, without proper
security. But I was not fearful of moving
anywhere. By using proper tactics and having
proper security, you go moving from point A to
point B, from one mountain to another mountain,
through a valley up to the militarized zone. Now,
there are times when it gets scary. But I was
confident enough that we could move about day and
night. So from that point of view, it had to be
successful. I think we controlled the
countryside. All right, sir. The next portion of
the interview will deal with your views. All
right, sir. All right, sir. If you could comment on
your views of the Arvin.
Well, again, I had very little contact with him. Of
course, I was over there twice. What many
Americans don't realize, or didn't realize, is
that the Vietnamese had been in a war for many years
before the Americans got there. It became a day of
life for
them, or an existing routine.
The war had probably been going on 10 years before
we got there. In their view, it could go on another
10 years or another 20 years.
And so their outlook on fighting a war was
completely different.
The Americans' outlook on the war is to get in
there, prosecute the war to the fullest, and then
get out as quickly as you can. So we went in there
eager, wanted to engage the enemy, defeat him,
wash our hands of the whole mess, and then get out of
the country.
and when you see someone who doesn't whose actions
don't indicate they believe the same thing you
tend to look at them as if they're not good soldiers
they're not good military people are they just not
good people in general and that's certainly not
the case with the vietnamese i think the
vietnamese were very very industrious people
that surely been borne out by those the boat
people, the refugees who have come to this
country. They're dedicated people. They believe
in their family. First of all, the Vietnamese
believe in their family more than anything else. I
don't think Americans can say that. We probably
have, most Americans have stronger ties to their
country than they do their family. Vietnam is
family first, country second. I'm not sure that's
the case in this case. But they moved at a different
pace than we did. They were war-weary. They'd been
fighting for 10 years. We came over there for 12
months and got out. We, being individuals, came
over there for 12 months and got out. I'm sure it
would be hard to get a bunch of the enemy's hyped up.
Okay, we're going to go out and build a crushing
blow to the
mountain. After ten years, you know, so many types
of going out and did a crushing blow. What was one
more? It just wasn't going to happen. Then we came
in there with all of our muscle and might and ready
to hold the war for them. I can't really blame,
particularly in hindsight, those people for
sitting back and saying, we're going to have this
big showy bully. I'm not calling us bullies, but
this big showy guy who's coming in and going to show
us how to fight a war. OK, well, we'll just sit back
and let
him do it. We'll see what situation the Vietnamese
is in now. I think they should have sat back and let
us do it, but we sure did. take over the country and
turn it back over to them in such a shape that they
wouldn't be able
to belong. And the South Vietnamese people are the
same people as the North Vietnamese. I have the
greatest admiration for the North Vietnamese.
I'm sure with proper leadership of the South
Vietnamese, their organizations were just as
good, just as fierce. There were some units there
in the Da Nang area, I don't recall the names, but
they had a tremendous economy. And I think the
Ontario organization, it's a function of
leadership. It's a good organization.
I think the Vietnamese were properly led and
motivated. All right, sir. Do you have any, in your
experiences with the ARVN, any command
conflicts? No. I did not, because mainly I was at a
level where we did not have to coordinate the
supporting fires. That went on at a level below me.
I am aware of conflicts. For instance, you have
fire support zones. If something was going on near
you that was in another zone, then you couldn't
fire there without it being cleared by his
adjacent zone commander. And we do that in actual
combat operations, but we didn't have the dual
clearance of the U.S. military commander and then
the Vietnamese zone commander. But I've heard
that was a problem that their parents were not
timely, but I never experienced it. All right,
sir. I need to change the tape now.